% KEYRINGER(1) Keyringer User Manual
% Silvio Rhatto <rhatto@riseup.net>
% Oct 25, 2013

# NAME

keyringer - encrypted and distributed secret sharing software

# SYNOPSIS

keyringer <*keyring*> <*action*> [*options*]...

# DESCRIPTION

Keyringer lets you manage and share secrets using GnuPG and Git in a
distributed fashion.

It has custom commands to create key-pairs and to encrypt, decrypt and
re-encrypt secrets. It also supports encryption to multiple recipients
and groups of recipients, to allow a workgroup to share access to a single
repository while restricting some secrets to subsets of the group.

Secrets are encrypted using GPG and added to a Git tree so that they can be
synced with remote branches later.

# ACTIONS

Keyringer has three types of actions:

1. Repository lookup and manipulation actions, which handle repository initialization,
   content tracking and navigation.

2. Secret manipulation actions, which take care of encrypting, decrypting and other
   read/write operations on secrets.

3. Configuration actions, handling repository metadata.

# REPOSITORY LOOKUP AND MANIPULATION ACTIONS

init <*path*> [*remote*]
:   Initialize a new keyringer repository. If a *remote* URL is specified, keyringer will
    clone an existing repository.

    After initialization, *path* will contain a folder structure for storing secrets
    and metadata (user aka recipients, groups of recipients, etc).

    Also, an entry will be added to `$HOME/.keyringer/config` allowing keyringer to
    find the keyring by its alias.

git <*action*> <*options*>
:   Git wrapper that operates from the toplevel keyring repository. You can issue any
    *GIT(1)* subcommand with this action to have it applied in the keyring repository.

ls <*path*>
:   List contents from the toplevel repository *keys* folder or from relative paths
    if *path* is specified. Like the git wrapper, this is a wrapper around the *LS(1)*
    command.

mkdir <*path*>
:   Create a directory inside the repository *keys* folder.

tree <*path*>
:   List contents from the toplevel repository *keys* folder or from relative paths
    if *path* is specified using a tree-like format. Like the ls wrapper, this is a
    wrapper around the *TREE(1)* command.

shell
:   Run keyringer on interactive mode from a built-in command-line prompt where
    all other actions can be called and are operated from the current selected
    keyring.

    An additional "cd" internal command is available for directory navigation.

    All <*secret*> parameters from actions invoked from the shell are called
    relatively from the current selected directory.

# SECRET MANIPULATION ACTIONS

All secret manipulation actions operate upon a *secret* which is the pathname
of an encrypted file relative to the keyring with optional `.asc` extension.

If the `.asc` extension is omitted, keyringer will add it at the end of the
pathname.

No spaces are allowed in the secret name.

Secret manipulation actions do not commit changes into the secret repository.
Instead, the user has to manually commit the changes using the git wrapper
action.

append <*secret*>
:   Append contents into a secret by decrypting the secret, appending lines read
    from the standard input and encrypting again.

append-batch <*secret*>
:   Append contents into a secret, batch mode.

decrypt <*secret*>
:   Decrypts a secret into standard output.

del <*secret*>
:   Removes a secret using Git. After deleting a secret a git commit and push is still
    needed to update remote repositories.

    Please note that this command **does not remove the secret from the Git history.**
    To completely remove a file from a keyring, you should also rewrite the Git
    history yourself.

rm <*secret*>
:   Alias for *del* action.

edit <*secret*>
:   Edit a secret by temporarily decrypting it, opening the decrypted copy into the 
    text editor defined by the *$EDITOR* environment variable and then re-encrypting it.

encrypt <*secret*> [*file*]
:   Encrypts content from standard input or *file* into *secret* pathname. No spaces
    are supported in the *secret* name. If *file* is actually a folder, keyringer
    will recursivelly encrypt all it's contents.

encrypt-batch <*secret*> [*file*]
:   Encrypt content, batch mode. Behavior is identical to *encrypt* action, but less
    verbose. Useful inside scripts.

genpair <*ssh*|*gpg*|*ssl*|*ssl-self*> [*options*]
:   Wrapper to generate encryption key-pairs, useful for automated key deployment.

open <*secret*>
:   Decrypt a secret into a temporary folder and open it using xdg-open, which
    tries to figure out the file type and then calls the associated application.

    After the application exits, keyringer encrypts the temporary decrypted file
    again into the secret file and deletes the temporary file.

recrypt <*secret*>
:   Re-encrypts a secret by decrypting it and encrypting it again. Useful when users are added
    into the recipient configuration. If no *secret* is given, all secrets in the repository
    are re-encrypted.

# CONFIGURATION ACTIONS

commands
:   List available actions, useful for shell completion and syntax check.

options <*ls*|*edit*|*add*>
:   List, edit or add miscellaneous *repository* options.

    Repository options are settings which are saved in the repository as a *global*
    configuration stanza for a given keyring, shared by all users with access to
    the repository.

    Options are written using the *KEY=VALUE* syntax. All lines starting with the
    hash (#) character are interpreted as comments.

preferences <*ls*|*edit*|*add*>
:   List, edit or add *user* preferences for a given repository.

    User preferences are settings which are saved in the user's keyringer folder
    (`$HOME/.keyringer/`), and not shared with the other users.

    Preferences are written using the *KEY=VALUE* syntax. All lines starting with the
    hash (#) character are interpreted as comments.

usage
:   Show keyringer usage information.

help
:   Alias for usage action.

recipients <*ls*|*edit*> <*recipients-file*>
:   List, create or edit recipients configuration.

    Recipients files are lists of OpenPGP public key fingerprints which are used
    by keyringer when encrypting secrets and associated with email aliases.

    Keyringer uses a default recipients file, but specifying a custom *recipients-file*
    pathname will override this default.

    For instance, if a user encrypts a secret to a file in the keyring repository's
    *accounting* folder, a *recipients-file* under *accounting* will be used.
    Encrypting a secret into *accounting/bank-accounts* will result in a file
    `$KEYRING_FOLDER/keys/accounting/bank-accounts.asc` encrypted using the public
    keys listed in the config file`$KEYRING_FOLDER/config/recipients/accounting`.

    Each line in a recipients file has entries in the format
    'john@doe.com XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX', where *john@doe.com*
    is an alias for the GPG public key whose fingerprint is
    *XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX.*

    All lines starting with the hash (#) character are interpreted as comments.

    Parameters to the *recipients* action are:

      *ls*
      :   List all existing recipients files.

      *edit*
      :   Create or edit a recipients file.

          Editing happens using the editor specified by the `$EDITOR`
          environment variable.

          The required parameter *recipients-file* is interpreted relative
          to the `$KEYRING_FOLDER/config/recipients/` folder.

# FILES

$HOME/.keyringer/config
:  User's main configuration file used to map alias names to keyrings.

$HOME/.keyringer/*keyring*
:  User preferences for the keyringer aliased *keyring* keyring.

$KEYRING_FOLDER/config/options
:  Custom keyring options which will be applied for all users that use
   the keyringer repository.

# LIMITATIONS

Keyringer currently has the following limitations:

1. Metadata is not encrypted, meaning that an attacker with access to a keyringer
  repository can discover all public key IDs used for encryption, and which secrets
  are encrypted to which keys. This can be improved in the future by encrypting
  the repository configuration with support for the *--hidden-recipient* GnuPG
  option.

2. History is not rewritten by default when secrets are removed from a keyringer
  repository. After a secret is removed with the *del* action, it will still be
  available in the repository history even after a commit. This is by design
  for the following reasons:

  - It's the default behavior of the Git content tracker. Forcing the
     deletion by default could break the expected behavior and hence limit
     the repository's backup features, which can be helpful if someone
     mistakenly overwrites a secret.

  - History rewriting cannot be considered a security measure against the
     unauthorized access to a secret as it doesn't automatically update all
     working copies of the repository.

     In the case that the secret is a passphrase, the recommended measure
     against such attacks is to change the passphrase, making useless the
     knowledge of the previous secret.

     Users wishing to edit their repository history should proceed manually
     using the *git* action.

# SEE ALSO

The *README* file distributed with Keyringer contains full documentation.

The Keyringer source code and all documentation may be downloaded from
<https://keyringer.pw>.
